http://www.urionlinejudge.com.br/judge/en/problems/view/1471

The recent earthquake in Nlogonia did not affect too much the buildings
in the capital, which was at the epicenter of the quake. But the scientists
found that it affected the dike wall, which now has a significant structural
failure in its underground part that, if not repaired quickly, can cause the
collapse of the dike, with the consequent flooding the whole capital.

The repair must be done by divers, at a large depth, under extremely difficult and
dangerous conditions. But since the survival of the city is at stake, its residents
came out in large numbers to volunteer for this dangerous mission.

As is traditional in dangerous missions, each diver received at the start of
his/her mission a small card with an identification number. At the end of their
mission, the volunteers returned the nameplate, placing it in a repository.

The dike is safe again, but unfortunately it seems that some volunteers did not
return from their missions. You were hired for the grueling task of, given the
plates placed in the repository, determine which volunteers lost their lives to
save the city.

Input

The input contains several test cases and ends with EOF. Each test case is composed of
two lines. The first line contains two integers N and R ( 1 ≤ R ≤ N ≤ 104), indicating
respectively the number of volunteers that went to the mission and the number of
volunteers that returned from the mission. Volunteers are identified by numbers from 1
to N. The second line contains R integers, indicating the volunteers which returned from
the mission (at least one volunteer returned).

Output

For each test case your program must produce a single line containing the identifiers of the
volunteers who did not return from their missions, in ascending order of their identifications.
Leave a blank space after each identifier (notice that, therefore, there must be a blank
space after the last identifier in the line). If every volunteer returned, the line must
contain a single character ‘*’ (asterisc).
