O URI, eh o melhor
Bem vindo, ja vai!!
Hope for the best, but prepare for the worst.
Teste parte 1, teste parte 2, outra virgula, mais uma virgula.
Is this the real life?, Is this just fantasy?
Caught in a landslide, No escape from reality
Open your eyes, Look up to the skies and see
I'm just a poor boy, I need no sympathy
Because I'm easy come, easy go
Little high, little low
Anyway the wind blows, Doesn't really matter to me
Mama, just killed a man
Put a gun against his head Pulled my trigger, now he's dead
Mama, life had just begun
But now I've gone, and thrown it all away
Mama!, Ooh!
Didn't mean to make you cry, If I'm not back again this time tomorrow
Carry on, carry on
As if nothing really matters, 
Too late, my time has come
Sends shivers down my spine, Body's aching all the time
Goodbye everybody, I've got to go
Gotta leave you all behind, And face the truth
Mama! Ooh!,(Any way the wind blows)
I don't wanna die, I sometimes wish I'd never been born at all
I see a little silhouetto of a man, Scaramouche! Scaramouche!
Will you do the fandango?, Thunderbolt and lightning
Very, very frightening me!
Galileo! Galileo!,Galileo! Galileo!
Galileo, Figaro! Magnifico!
I'm just a poor boy and nobody loves me, He's just a poor boy from a poor family
Spare him his life, from this monstrosity
Easy come, easy go
Will you let me go?, Bismillah!
No, we will not let you go!
(Let him go!), Bismillah!
We will not let you go!,(Let him go!)
Bismillah!, We will not let you go!
(Let me go!), Will not let you go!
(Let me go!), Never, never let you go!
Never, never
never let me go!,No
no, no
no, no
no, no!
Oh, mamma mia
mamma mia! Mamma mia, let me go!
Beelzebub has a devil put aside, for me!
For me!, For me!
So you think you can stone me and spit in my eye?, So you think you can love me and leave me to die?
Oh, baby!
Can't do this to me, baby!
Just gotta get out, Just gotta get right outta here!
Oh, yeah!
Oh, yeah!
Nothing really matters, Anyone can see
Nothing really matters, Nothing really matters to me
Any way, the wind blows...
