http://www.urionlinejudge.com.br/judge/en/problems/view/1457

Every Computer Scientist worth his salt knows the book "The Hitchhiker's
Guide to the Galaxy" and know the answer to the fundamental question
about life, the universe and everything. But what few know is that the
story of Douglas Adams is based on an Egyptian legend, of an oracle located
in Eskendereyya (Alexandria). Alexandria today is the largest city of Egypt,
with more than 4 million inhabitants. It is in the Nile Delta, and stretches
for 32km along the Mediterranean coast. In the past, the city founded in 331
BC by Alexander the Great, was one of the main cities in the world and there
was the Lighthouse of Alexandria (one of the 7 Wonders of the Ancient World),
the Library of Alexandria (the largest in the ancient world) and other fantastic
works. The legend also says that there was the great oracle of Alexandria. The
townspeople delivered the oracle small tickets with numbers noted, and received
back a number, that would be the answer to a fundamental question of the
universe related to the two given numbers.

In his treatise of 227 AD Cleomenes of Naucratis (who became administrator of
Alexandria when Alexander departed for his conquests) reports some results of
the oracle:

    Given 8 and 1 the oracle returned 40320;
    Given 10 and 3, returned 280;
    Given 4 and 2, returned 8;
    Given 21 and 19, returned 42.

Modern studies realized that what the oracle returned was nothing more than
a generalization of the factorial of an integer. As we know,

N! = N x (N-1) x ... x 1.

What the oracle returned for the data N and K, was the K-factor of N, in other words,

N x (N-K) x (N-2K) x (N-3K) x ...,

in which the product was made while the difference is greater than or equal to 1. We
can represent the K-factor of a number for him followed by K exclamations:

    8! = 40320;
    10!!! = 280;
    4!! = 8;
    21!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! = 42

They say that when reading about the legend of oracle Eskendereyya, Douglas Adams got
his inspiration for his work. Also, in Egypt is the inspiration of the restaurant at the
end of the universe, but that's another story ...

Given the integers N and K your task is determine K-factor of N.

Input

The input is composed of several instances. The first line of input contains an integer
T indicating the number of instances.

The first (and only) row of each instance contains an integer N followed by K points
exclamation, where 1 ≤ N ≤ 100 and 1 ≤ K ≤ 20.

Output

For each instance print a line containing the K-factor of N.

It is guaranteed that no instance in the input has a result greater than 1018.
